We're willing to do something crazy to
make our dream come true. You guys have
reinvented how to succeed on YouTube. We
had just bought $3,000 worth of plane
tickets.
>> We were on the way to the airport
without telling our wives we were flying
to America.
>> What? You set a date to premiere a movie
for Ryan Tran in one week that you
hadn't even filmed or edited yet.
>> It was nuts.
>> That takes serious balls.
>> But we also had this offer from Mark
Robot. If we were part-time with him, we
could fund our YouTube channel. This is
where the negotiations began. You guys
helped Mark Robber go from 25 to over 60
million subscribers and now you're
making trailers and commercials for the
biggest YouTubers.
>> That's when we got the DM from Jimmy
>> and that just like completely shocked
us.
>> I think you guys will be remembered as
the Spielbergs of YouTube. How do you
make a movie about Mr. Beast that tells
the full truth?
>> We don't want it to feel like a Jimmy
Puff.
>> Is a movie going to cost $20 million?
So, we say everything.
[Music]
>> All right. Make sure you subscribe and
ring the bell because we have so many
big videos coming up from interviews to
studio tours. And if you haven't
already, then go to ytackpack.com to get
our free YouTube hackpack with all our
best tips, tools, and templates to grow
on YouTube today. From our intro and
thumbnail templates to our 100 viral
ideas for any niche, we constantly
update it as we interview more creators
so you have the latest and greatest for
free. All right, now back to the video.
All right, boys. Welcome to the show.
I'm so excited to have you guys.
>> So good to be here.
>> Can't believe we're here. This is
awesome.
>> This is the dream.
>> I feel you guys are like the creators of
the moment right now. Oh, yeah. Like the
movies, commercials, like the projects
you have coming and I can't believe you
haven't really done podcasts. So, it's
just an honor to be able to sit down
with you guys. This is one of the first
we've done. So,
>> thank you.
>> Of course. So, I love going through the
libraries of YouTubers who I interview
and just looking at where the turning
points um were. So,
>> I I know I know Taylor Swift has her
eras, but I think you guys have your
eras, too.
>> Dang.
>> Um and so I pulled some of your videos
and tell me if this is accurate. I I
think you guys have these three eras
where you made these videos like short
films, cinematic videos which I think a
lot of um videographers and photograph
like struggle to make on YouTube to get
traction
>> and then you started making these
creator movies and now you make these
like epic commercials that don't even
feel like commercials.
>> I'm just wondering if you could
>> share some of those turning points um
and and some of those oh moments
for you guys.
>> Okay. The big one Let's go like when we
went viral. We'll take you back. We'll
take you back.
>> So, this paper boy short film was on an
old channel of ours.
>> Yeah.
>> And Lucas and I have been making short
films like all the time. All the time.
We just make a bunch of them and just
post them to YouTube, never expecting
them to go viral.
>> This was one of the first that went
viral and we didn't even realize it. We
checked YouTube one day.
>> Yeah. We posted it um forgot about it.
One day some of our family members came
over and were like, "Oh, we'll show you
a short film, like a show and tell."
Yeah.
>> And we turned on YouTube and it was like
100,000 views
>> and we watched it climb to like nearly 2
million. It's like on 1.9 right now.
>> Yeah. So that was like oh my gosh like
short films maybe they can like go viral
on YouTube and got us really excited.
>> So then you know we had to do other work
to like survive. But then like what if
we just put our heads together and like
try and make films every now and then.
That was really this era
>> like the cold order. And were you
getting paid for these films or like
somebody commissioning or these were
purely passion projects that you were
like coming up with the ideas, filming
them and trying to submit them to
festival like what was the plan if there
was any?
>> Uh so the first like era of short films
we were um we were working on them with
our our church media team. M
>> so we were like kind of creating these
like hopeful like short films that we
could play with like along with like a
sermon at church or something
>> and then we would just post them on that
channel and then eventually we kind of
started working you know I was shooting
weddings a lot was
>> I was doing business videos and wedding
videos and
>> and that's kind of this era when we were
like let's team up and create like a
brand new channel called sticks
>> in any spare time we could get we were
like okay let's write a film let's get
some crew together it was always like
zero budget maybe like $100 here and
there
>> just to like you know make something.
>> Yeah.
>> It was a side hustle at that point. Yes.
We were like luckily like shooting
weddings gives you a lot of time
throughout the week cuz you're working
on the weekend.
>> Um so we had kind of the week like just
to work on this channel.
>> Oh if I had a penny for every YouTuber
started out by doing wedding video
to like you know fill the bank like
>> it's kind of OP because you can just
work throughout the week on your channel
and then you work extra on the weekends.
And
>> I had like a slightly different thing
cuz I was doing weddings but also
business videos
>> and I was like trying my best to like
get a big deal
>> to that just buy me a month of like
working with Curtis.
>> So there was one time where I got like a
pretty big deal.
>> What was it like 30 30k or something?
>> Mhm. And we're like, "Okay,
>> let's spend the next
>> What if we just like ask our wives
wives, can we please have like two
months where we just like work on
YouTube?"
>> And they gave it to us
>> and we were like that's when we made
Yeah. That's when we started making
short films like one after the other.
>> Interesting.
>> And we knew we had like a ticking time
clock to like try and make something
work.
>> Yeah. One for the show, one for the
dough.
>> Yeah. That's it. Classic. And then when
did it start to make sense that like
>> wait wait wait wait maybe we should be
making more trailers about YouTubers
because I think there was another moment
that I wanted to call out which was I
saw this one video that you guys made
which was we turned a news headline into
a movie.
>> Yeah.
>> And it was actually one of the uploads
right before if Arax's life was a movie.
>> Yes.
>> And I'm just curious because it's like
it's almost one degree of change.
>> Right. Exactly right.
>> And and and it's like when did that
start to click of like wait okay news
head I I can understand what you guys
were trying to do there like news
headlines people talk about them to a
movie it shows your chops like but take
me through how you got there and then
ultimately made that other switch to
talk about
>> really thought that one was going to be
the one.
>> Yeah.
>> So
>> I mean we thought every single one was
going to be the one.
>> Kind of naive.
>> I think it was the beginning of 2023.
>> We it was the start of the new year. We
thought like the videos we were making
with like you know we turned a news
headline into movie. We're trying to
think of how we can make short films go
viral on YouTube because we really
believed in this idea of like YouTube
and Hollywood coming together eventually
and and we wanted to be at the forefront
of that
>> and so we kind of made these videos like
we remade the social network or we made
an entire web series without a script
and just like posted these short films
with packaging that was like YouTube
friendly
>> and we knew like packaging was going to
be the thing that would change
everything cuz we thought we were pretty
good at making films. We enjoyed the
level we were like making these films,
but there wasn't like a foolproof plan
for a filmmaker to go viral.
>> Yeah.
>> So, we were like, there's got to be a
way to package this really well.
>> And really, it actually started with the
idea for the Mr. Beast movie before any
of the
>> uh videos we posted on the channel. So,
we came up with the idea to make Mr.
Beast's own life movie. And then we kind
of worked backwards from that and
thought
>> like a social network for
>> Exactly.
>> Mr. Beast for Jimmy's life.
>> Yeah. a biopic about Jimmy
>> 2our movie. We wanted to put it in
theaters. It was like this crazy idea
when they were like, "Okay, but
>> how do we get there?
>> We can't do that right now. And how do
we get there?" And so it was the big
idea was like so big that it wasn't
helpful.
>> And then we were like, "Okay, what if we
what if we did like trailers for
YouTubers until we make Mr. Beast his
own movie?" And so we were like, "Okay,
we let's just try it out with Eric." And
I remember we were like not too sure if
it was going to work.
>> Yeah.
>> Um super low budget and like trying to
>> recreate Eric's life with no money would
have was like so daunting to us.
>> How much did it cost to put that
together?
>> I don't think we spent a dollar
>> like I was I the only prop we used was
like pizza. So we probably paid 12 bucks
for pizza. True.
>> Um but I played Lucas had the camera and
then we had a friend
>> shaved. you played
>> and then we had a friend helping us out
who, you know, just did everything else.
Um, but we really we weren't too sure if
it was going to work and it didn't
really work.
>> Um, because the packaging Yeah. It comes
down to the packaging.
>> Wait, that that video has a ton of
views.
>> Now it does. At the time it only had a
couple thousand.
>> Really?
>> Yeah.
>> What was the view count in the first
seven days, month? Do you remember?
>> I think it we were excited that it hit
like a thousand views.
>> Yeah.
>> In the first couple in the first week.
Yeah.
>> Wow. Cuz I I maybe just looking at your
channel and all the hits you've had, I
assume that one was a instant rocket
ship.
>> No, that one. No, that was a flop.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah.
>> And And how did that feel?
>> We thought the idea in the packaging was
really, really cool.
>> We didn't have the thumbnail and we
didn't have the title.
>> That came later. So,
>> bad bad YouTube practice.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, we made the thing and
then we had this trailer to show Eric,
but our our thought was so small. It was
like, let's try and send it to him.
Let's try and send it to someone on his
team and get like a comment or a
reaction.
>> Like send it as a MP4 before you upload
or once the link is live.
>> We were going to send the link, so like
post it to YouTube and see if we can get
a comment
>> or some sort of reaction.
>> But
>> we didn't realize that that was like too
small. And some of our friends were
like, "Why don't you go like fly to LA
and show it to him at his pizza party
that's coming up?" We're like that we're
not like YouTubers. Like we're like
we're filmmakers. And then something
clicked. We're like, "Wait, that's a
cool idea."
>> Why are we why are we still here? Like
why don't we just buy some plane tickets
and go? Like that's a really cool
YouTube video.
>> And like for context, he he was throwing
this 10 million subscriber pizza party.
>> Oh, I was there.
>> Oh, you were there? Oh, dang. You could
have hooked us up. You could have been
the
>> We didn't know each other. Yeah.
>> Yeah. He was throwing that party and
>> at Sofi Stadium. It was it was a big
deal. Big deal. Massive.
>> We just had this crazy idea that we
could hijack this party.
>> Just imagine like we rock up, talk to
someone. Can we sneak this like trailer
onto the big screen?
>> Can we play this in front of everyone? I
don't know what we were thinking.
>> Honestly, it doesn't sound that crazy.
Like like knowing and how he like kind
of collab with creators way bigger than
him. I feel like
>> he was inspired by Iraq as well.
>> The crazy part it was 4 days out. That's
what the crazy part was. So we were like
in Sydney the only flight that would get
us there meant we we'd have to leave
that day.
>> Yeah.
>> So we decided
>> the morning of the morning of we were
like let's buy tickets right now and
drive to the airport. So, we were buying
tickets on the way and what we didn't
realize is we needed to also have our
visa, our ESTA visa like sorted before
we got on the plane.
>> We realized that when we arrived there.
>> So, we're looking up like how long does
it take to get approval and it's like
could be up to 72 hours.
>> Oh my god.
>> But we had just bought $3,000 worth of
plane tickets.
>> Long story short,
>> and the plane is about to take off.
>> The plane's about to take off in the
next like 20 minutes. So you need to
squeeze 72 hours of approvals or like
bureaucracy the visas into an hour. But
then within an hour we both get
approved. So then we sprint through like
>> security all the way through the airport
and we get there like 30 seconds late.
The plane has just taken off
>> and we were like what what did we just
do? Like we just spent $3,000.
We we were willing to just go to the
other side of the world on a whim
>> and we went home actually like wait did
we just like break through something
like
>> you talk about those moments of like
change where like you realize something.
I think that for for us that was like a
huge moment where we kind of realized
where
>> we're willing to do something crazy to
make our dream come true. like us like
exiting the airport that day was like it
should have seemed like a a loss like an
L
>> but it felt like the biggest win because
we we were we realized how far we were
willing to go for our dream and that for
us was like the biggest breakthrough
moment.
>> Yeah. Like we put our money where our
mouth is and that was like if we're
willing to do that, what if there was
some planning for the next time and
actually some execution?
>> So yeah, this was our first viral video.
>> Yeah. which was
>> we surprised Ryan Tran with his own
movie.
>> So tell me about that one. Like
>> what went on behind the scenes? Like why
was that a turning point?
>> So when the Eric video got posted, we
did get a comment from Eric and that was
super encouraging to us.
>> Bro, what?
>> Yeah, bro. Bro, what? And that was all
he said. But what was cool is like we
saw it get like up to like 5,000 views
on its own. And and that was big for us
>> cuz we were getting like under a,000 for
all our little short films.
>> Yeah. And a few of our friends were
telling us just try this again and and
do do something like this again. And I
comments this will work.
>> The comments were like this is a good
idea but like
>> it'd be cool to see like Eric watch it.
>> And so we're like okay
>> let's do this again and focus on the
reaction of the person we're showing
>> like try to really make it special for
the creator and like get it to them.
>> And we realized that was the core of
what made these videos special.
>> So we again a huge risk. We didn't have
any connections with Ryan, but we bought
tickets to America. This time we got on
the flight and we hadn't we hadn't made
the film yet, but we flew to Austin and
Connection by Connection like tried to
get in touch with him.
>> I think it's because we were crazy
enough to do that that people were like,
"Oh, I I can like I can get you in touch
with Ryan." Because we flew from like
the story was we just flew from
Australia. We're trying to show him a
movie about himself,
>> which you hadn't created. No, not media.
>> What were some of those initial DMs
like? Like who were you reaching out to?
Like what were you saying?
>> So from the Ara video, we had kind of a
connection with um Eric's manager, Zack.
>> Zack. Zack. I love Z. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So we were also part of Creator
Now, which was Ara's uh group where the
where YouTubers learn and you know
there's a
>> creator education platform. You said it
way better than
>> Yeah. That Zach co-founded with him.
Yeah. Yeah. So, we knew that our only
connection was we can go to the creator
now headquarters and maybe find Zach
there, but he wasn't like he's a busy
guy, so we weren't like messaging him or
anything.
>> We just knew that he had seen our
previous video and that was it.
>> So, and you're like fighting the
headquarters on Google Maps.
>> No, no. So, we told we told the creator
in our community we're coming to
America. And then, funnily enough, they
reached out and said, "Oh, if you're
coming, swing by." Um, and we had a we
had like a 12-h hour layover in LA. So,
we're like, "This is perfect."
>> So, we went to Creator Now, but what we
didn't know was if Zach was going to be
there or even have time to talk to us.
And then
>> as we were leaving, like just before we
were leaving, he gets out of a meeting
and says hi to us.
>> And then we just shot our shot. I was
like, we came all the way here to find
Ryan Tran to show him a movie. Can you
put us in touch? And then he was like,
"Look, if you make a video, like a short
quick video, I'll send it to him and
that's all I can do." Which is very
helpful.
>> And we were like, "We can do that."
>> We're like, "Yeah, we can do that." So
then we went straight to was it Santa
Monica Pier and just like try to make
the funniest, goofiest like like invite
video to send straight to Ryan Tran.
>> A selfie video. Like at this point,
you're not making some edited or
anything. Just
>> just on an iPhone like vertical like a
like a quick
>> It's like a YouTube short really.
>> Yeah. And then we sent that to Zach. And
then we flew to Austin, still not
knowing if we were going to meet Ryan or
get in touch with him. When we got to
Austin, started to prep the first day of
the shoot for Ryan's movie, we get a
text from Zach saying, "Ryan's down.
Let's put you in a group chat." Wow.
>> That was the craziest moment ever. That
felt like breaking through a bubble of
like imagination and into the real world
of like this can actually be possible.
>> Yeah.
>> Wow. Yeah.
>> And then what happened? like you got in
the group chat with Ryan and at that
point are you also simultaneously
>> making the movie about him like casting
somebody like what what like how are you
balancing
>> while we're in Australia we kind of
prepped some of the pieces so we got
like this doppelganger we found on Tik
Tok that looked exactly like Ryan we
flew him down from Nebraska to meet us
in Austin
>> Wow
>> and we had one friend who was local in
Texas who helped us out on the shoot
>> and then yeah when we when we got in a
group chat with Ryan we kind of teed up
like a good date that would work for him
and then And from there we
>> a date for the premiere of a movie that
you haven't even started editing.
>> Yeah, that's right.
>> So then we kind of worked back backward
from there and go, "All right,
>> how many weeks are we talking?" Like
pressure cooker in
>> We were in America for a week and a
half.
>> What?
>> Yeah.
>> Wait, you got you set a date for a
premiere for a movie that you hadn't
started. You're like, you're going to
give yourself a week and a half to
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. Less than a week,
>> film, edit,
>> find a theater.
>> It was nuts. It was non-stop working
like shooting every day. We we've never
played anything in a theater before
really and there's like a certain way
you have to have like a file like a DCP
file ready to learn how to get this
thing played in a cinema and also with
no one like knowing what we were doing.
Like the cinema owners were just
confused
>> cuz we asked like every cinema in the
area. Also trying to make it reasonable
like driving distance for Ryan.
>> Wow.
>> And it was a miracle that we got a
cinema like the night before he was
coming. Yeah.
>> Was it the night before? Yeah.
>> How did that even happen? What? Like
Ryan was like he he had a a set date and
time that he was going to meet us and we
didn't have a cinema for him to even
come to.
>> Wow.
>> I think the reason we were willing to
work so hard up until that point was
because we knew the idea was so good.
>> We had Ryan in the video. We just have
to nail everything. We just have to try
work our hardest to make it all work and
it paid off big time.
>> Dude, you know what I really believe
when it comes to YouTube? There's
nothing more motivating than a deadline
and an audience. Even if that audience
is one person.
>> Yes,
>> 100%.
>> Yeah,
>> that is crazy. I didn't realize like all
the pressure that was behind that video.
>> Oh, it's like it feels like that for
every video though.
>> Yeah. And I think that's what makes the
videos interesting. Yeah.
>> Is like the risk that we're willing to
take on and the faith step that we're
willing to take on is really the what
makes it interesting for us to watch.
>> Like we don't know what's going to
happen in this video genuinely. Like
looking back at this video, we love that
there's like a 27 minute video about us
like taking this huge leap of faith and
documenting every step of the way until
the end. The payoff is just so fun to
look back on.
>> And at this same time, like are you
writing the script and researching and
location scouting? Cuz I I think in many
ways like you guys have built the
perfect YouTube channel.
>> What?
>> But and I'll tell you why. But you've
also built the hardest YouTube channel
cuz I was just going through all all the
steps that you guys have to do. Okay.
All right. You have to research every
single thing about the guests. Yes. Like
kind of like I have to do, but like I'm
not renting out a theater, you know,
like Okay. Then you have to film a movie
about them, cast, scout locations, get
props, and do it all within like 3 days
on a budget.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Then you have to edit it. All right.
That's like, you know, a whole another
thing. Sound design, score, color.
>> You have to find the creator and
convince them to show up on a certain
date and time to spend time with you.
>> You have to rent to theater. I didn't
even realize that's like,
>> you know, as hard as it is.
>> And then you film BTS.
while you're doing all of this,
>> there's a there's easier ways to like
get a couple million views on a video
>> than that.
>> Um, but but what were some of the things
that you learned through the process of
making that movie about Ryan? Like
>> cuz cuz I think you guys sit in the
middle of this ven diagram that I drew
here of
>> YouTube and movies.
>> That's awesome. That's literally what we
like
>> imagined when we started the channel.
We're like
>> we want to be the bridge between like
>> movies, Hollywood and and YouTube and
like sit somewhere in between that. So
that's crazy that you have that drawing.
>> So So yeah, what did you learn
throughout that that process and how did
that like kind of go into like you know
your experience with Ryan once he saw
it?
>> So the cool thing is about halfway
through the shoot I was up late at night
thinking like what are we going to say
to Ryan when he's sitting there next to
us like this is a big opportunity. I
don't want to just show him the movie
and go home.
>> Like, and then I came up with the
proposition and I came to Kurt the next
morning. I was like, "What if we say,
>> we'll put your name in the credits of
the Mr. Beast movie if you get us a
meeting with Mr. Beast?"
>> Yeah. And I think that works so much so
well because it not only gives us like a
purpose to why we're doing this and like
um it it gives the audience context to
our larger goal,
>> but also just like in a retention sort
of way. You're waiting not only for
Ryan's reaction, but then will he answer
the question at the end?
>> Yeah. Will he like unlock our bigger
goal, which makes like it's not just
context, it's also like it makes every
little thing we do in this video like
attached to our biggest dream
>> and it shows why we're trying to work so
hard to get this done. So, you can't
look away until you see that answer at
the end.
>> That was our fun way of like retention.
Yeah.
>> Without, you know,
trying to be too like fast with the cuts
or trying to be like, you know, treating
the audience like they don't want to pay
attention. Like it's genuinely if you
follow each step of the of the story,
you're hooked until you get to the end.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Ryan seems so gracious. And
it I saw in that video uh you guys
recorded a video that he then sent to
Jimmy.
>> Yes.
>> Um where do things go from there?
>> At the same time we're making this,
we're also in talks with Mark Robber
because we applied for a role with him
to uh produce his shorts. Oh wow.
>> So, literally the same night when we got
um in the group chat with Ryan, we got a
message back from Mark Rover's team
saying they'd love to interview us.
>> And and this is from a job posting you
just saw.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. In Creator Now, he he posted a job
posting and we just applied and sent in
some of some shorts that we made for
him.
>> And so the day Yeah. Ryan texted us. We
had a meeting with with Mark Grobo.
>> Wow. What a day.
>> Crazy. It was literally like backto-back
calls and like we just spoke to two of
like our favorite YouTubers. Yeah.
>> So that is a side story for the sticks
law
>> was like
>> our video was like already taking off
and our channel was like becoming it
like a thing but we also had this offer
from Mark Robot
>> to like work part-time for his channel
>> which there's so much in that. Yeah.
>> Like there's there's I want to talk
about that more.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead. cuz I I think it's
it's and untold story is how you fund
all this. Like I'm wondering just to put
it in perspective. How much would you
estimate like that um movie for Ryan
costs? Like cinema costs like editing.
Obviously you guys are putting a ton of
your own time like flying it. Like how
much did that cost? We recently launched
a whole new collection of our created
apparel with hoodies, crew necks, ball
caps, t-shirts, and more. And it was all
made possible thanks to today's sponsor,
Shopify. I mean, if there's one thing
that Stixs, myself, and a ton of other
creators have in common, it's that we
love using Shopify. In fact, Stixs use
Shopify to sell these amazing creator
movie posters. And now with the new
Shopify sidekick, you have an AI powered
assistant right at your fingertips
that's trained on all of your products.
You could ask it anything like, "Write
my product descriptions organize my
merch into collections or set up my
payments and it'll do it all in
seconds." Like, watch this. I'm going to
ask Sidekick to set up a promo code for
our created store. And it does it like
that. Sidekick can also analyze your
sales and even suggest ideas to improve
your conversion with step-by-step
instructions to take that work off your
plate. That paired with a new AI store
builder, which lets you generate images
and build your entire website in seconds
means it's never been an easier time to
start and scale your business on
Shopify. So, if you're a creator or just
have an idea to start a business, check
out Shopify. And best of all, you'll get
a free trial by using my link below, so
you can see why so many top creators use
it and love it. All right, now back to
the video.
>> I mean, with the flights and all the
production stuff, like cuz we're going
from Australia to America,
>> um I think it was like 25K or something
like that
>> for for Ryan's one.
>> Yeah. Or maybe less.
>> No, I think it was like 10k,
>> but with the flights.
So it was I remember saying to our mom,
guess how much we spent on this whole
thing as she was driving us to the
airport and I said 10k.
>> That's right.
>> So by the end
>> because the thing is with that one we
had no help. It was like no crew just a
friend
>> and he was lending us gear
>> and it was and we also stayed with a
friend.
>> So
>> but then
>> we spent no money on on like locations
just a couple props.
>> Yeah. So you pulled a lot of favor. the
the real cost is actually much higher
probably.
>> Yes.
>> Which we find out in the next coming
>> as we're starting to pay people like
normal people should.
>> Yeah.
>> It gets expensive.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, Mark Robber's uh
really wanting to hire us and we're like
this is such a crazy opportunity and we
say yes. if we take it on and we're
like, "Okay, what if he was looking for
one shorts creator, like someone to like
head up shorts cuz he was just starting
to get into it,
>> help him ideate and edit
>> just to take over the whole shorts part
of his channel."
>> Got it full time.
>> Yeah. Idiate, write with him, edit,
produce.
>> He hadn't really posted any shorts
before, so it was like really from from
scratch, like
>> figuring out what Mark Rob shorts look
like.
>> Yeah. And he was even saying like, um,
what do you guys think? like is is it
should should we get into this? Like
should like is shorts like should I do
this? And we were saying like of course
like we'd love to like work with you and
see how like what is a marker of a short
and like what could you do with shorts
that helps you connect to your audience
more.
>> And after that call he was like all
right let's do it. So we were doing
that.
>> That's crazy. By the way, like
>> these two kids from Australia just got a
dream job with Marco Robbo. Like we were
so
>> we felt so blessed.
>> Yeah, it was wild.
>> And what was going on in your mind at
this moment? Was it the opportunity to
learn but also keep your own stuff going
and using the money for this to find
because I I think this is like a
>> constant thing that creators find
themselves. I I I I was in the same boat
like starting my YouTube channel. We
were spending so much on our videos.
because I had to take like side gigs and
jobs just to pay for it.
>> Um, and the biggest thing uh that I I I
think is like a win-win is like if you
get a gig with a creator that you can
learn from.
>> Oh, yes. Like I mean that's the best
that's like the best grad school that
pays you tuition, you know?
>> Exactly. Exactly.
>> Um, so were you guys thinking about
continuing the Sticks channel as you're
working with Mark or did he ask you to
shut it down to do everything full-time
for him? cuz I could see it going both
ways. Like you're working for something,
they're giving you salary. Like they
would expect your full attention not to
>> go to your channel but their channel. So
how did that work?
>> So this is where the uh
>> negotiations
>> negotiations began. Okay. So he was
looking for one full-time shorts creator
>> and as you can see we are two people and
we said okay what if we pitch him on he
gets his full-time creator but we both
do it part-time. So, you get two
creators part-time to make up a
full-time role. And we sent that back to
Mark. And we're just like, "Please,
please, please let this work." Because
if we were part-time with him, we could
fund our YouTube channel cuz these
videos are so expensive to make. It's
not it's not paying itself off.
>> Yeah.
>> So, he comes back saying yes. And then
we're like, "Okay, this is our new
thing. Like, let's stop the weddings and
the business videos. Wow. We got We're
working
>> for Mark part time and our channel
>> and that's it.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah.
>> And there's also another element to like
working for a creator that it really
verifies you to working with more
creators
>> like um you know like having a a resume
that looks really good. But like even
with Ryan, the same day we spoke to Ryan
and Mark, they were actually together in
person in SF. Like they were together in
person at Mark's Crunch Labs warehouse.
And so that they both talked about us to
each other and instantly instantly we
were verified for both opportunities.
>> Isn't that crazy though? Like Ryan was
at Mark's uh Crunch Labs
>> that day that
>> we got put in a group chat with Ryan.
>> Wow.
>> And he said, "Oh, these um he's no
Mark's saying, I'm just about to talk to
these, you know, two Australian brothers
who might do my shorts." And Ryan's
like, "Oh, this two Australian brothers
are trying to make me a movie right
now." Like the same people. So instantly
they both just get like we're just
verified to both of them.
>> Wow. So it's just like such a great
opportunity.
>> But our thought process going in was
like cuz we definitely believed in our
channel enough to just go fulltime as
well. We we weren't um we weren't scared
that it was going to take off. We were
ready to go all in like what we learned
with the AAC video. But we did think
like how cool would it be to learn from
Mark Robber, have some money to help
fund our our channel and learn like
learning from Mark Robber encompasses a
bunch of things like how he does his
videos, but also how he runs his
business and like
>> what's it like to grow a channel over so
long and say stay sustainable.
>> Yeah,
>> those things were very interesting to
us. Like it'd be amazing to like help in
how he can and also learn from what he's
created.
>> Yeah.
>> So it was just like we can't turn that
down.
>> Yeah. So take me into that era of like
Stixs now working for Mark Robber but
now
>> figuring out your format of this trailer
for creators.
>> Yeah.
>> Renting a theater and doing the BTS.
Like what were some of the things that
you may have learned from Mark that
showed up in your YouTube videos for
your channel?
Well, one thing before I get to like
what we learned from Mark was like we
had this viral video pop off and the
question of like what will be our next
hit is obviously a thing that everyone
thinks about when they have a video go
viral.
>> This again after the Ryan Tran video
took off.
>> Yeah, this what we surprised Ryan Tran
>> and so we thought the safest bet is just
to do this again with Mark. He's even
bigger than Ryan
>> and we have the connection and this
could be a great way to repeat what we
just did and create the consistency. So,
>> but there was no other options really
cuz uh we we hadn't had like any
connections with other big YouTubers and
it was like a no-brainer. We we'd love
to surprise Mark with his own movie.
>> Surprise your boss.
>> Surprise boss.
>> Yeah. Scary though because like
>> he's like just hired us and we didn't
want to like,
>> you know, treat him like we're just
trying to get something from him.
>> Um
>> he's super gracious.
>> He's so Yeah, he's super gracious.
>> Yeah, Mark is wonderful. He was, you
know, he was really excited to see what
we made once we showed him, but we just
took a risk and we're like, we think
he'll be okay with this. How many months
into the job were you at that point?
>> Oh, only like three months.
>> Wow.
>> That takes that takes serious balls.
Like because I feel like those first few
months with any job, you're trying to
build a great impression for your boss
that you're doing everything for them.
>> Meanwhile, you're like, "Hey, look at
this thing that we're doing for our
channel." Yeah.
>> Did that like ever come up in
conversation or like how did you guys
like navigate like
>> he was cool with it as long as we were
like still pumping out these shorts. So
we kept consistent on the short side. I
mean we were grinding cuz we're doing
like our main videos which take you
already wrote out all those things that
we do plus all the shorts for Mark. So
just like
>> and then the other side of it's like
we're flying from Sydney to America
every like few weeks.
>> Oh you hadn't moved yet?
>> No. We were working for Mark remote for
like 6 months.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. And that's a crazy time difference
because you will come online around 400
p.m. 3 p.m. for us here on the West
Coast.
>> Yeah. So, lots of late nights, lots of
like trips to America, you know, saying
bye to our wives every couple weeks. It
was tough. Um, but it was such a awesome
opportunity to like capitalize on the
growth that was happening.
>> Yeah. And I think back to like um
surprising him, like taking that risk to
surprise him. Our mentality was like we
just want to honor him with like a
really cool story. Like we want to make
it a moment for him,
>> not just get a video out of it.
Obviously, it's like a win for us, but
if we can really make it special for
him, then it should be okay.
>> And that that was one of the most
emotional ones, at least for me watching
it. Like that was beautifully like the
trailer you guys made about his life and
also the casting.
>> Yeah. Like
>> we luck out with the casting every time.
It's
>> No, no, no. You guys work hard. Yeah.
Can't imagine how many people you go
through. So, wow. And and and again,
just to put it in perspective, how much
you're balancing, how many shorts are
you guys putting out for Mark?
>> One a week.
>> One per week.
>> Uh one per week for Mark's channel, then
Crunch Labs, one per week.
>> So, two per week.
>> Two per week.
>> Yeah.
>> In addition to everything you're doing
for your channel.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh what else were you guys figuring out
about your channel at that point? Like
what was happening from there? It's so
funny because like it feels like when we
said yes to Mark and when we said yes to
like flying to America to surprise Ryan,
something in us clicked like creatively
where we just started understanding
YouTube
>> and like all of a sudden everything
we've learned over years just kind of
clicked into place and we understood
like shorts better. We like we hadn't
really made shorts before like working
with Mark, but we understood them so
quickly. We kind of came up with this
crazy thumbnail concept that we still
love. How did how did we come up with
this? So on the day we had a we had a
concept where it was Ryan like turning
to the camera looking playing it on a
TV.
>> Oh, interesting.
>> But when we pulled off the whole movie
theater thing, we were like
>> it'd be crazy to just get a photo of
just his face like just shocked. And so
that's all we took. It was a photo of
his face. And the actual image was very
underwhelming. Like it wasn't a good
thumbnail. Uh what I did in Photoshop
was like the few touches that spiced it
up. It made it feel like
>> it was like a movie frame like a bit.
It's got of like a kind of like a sci-fi
>> look because of
>> So the the few things I I did was like
>> if the popcorn was like flying and
midair it just captures like a a moment
like this action going on.
>> And then I think I was like it's it it
looked great with the popcorn flying but
then like it needs some more like a pop
of color to like contrast the red. M.
>> And so I was like, what if we added like
a blue backlight from like the projector
screen
>> and then it's like signaling that he's
watching something as well.
>> And then that nice lens flare is what
makes it feel like a bit of a movie
poster kind of feel. And he didn't have
any backlight. So I just like
photoshopped this backlight onto his
hair. And then he popped. And then we're
looking at this like, wa, this is really
cool.
>> It's not very traditional of like a
YouTube thumbnail, but let's give it a
try. M
>> and then when it came to the title, it
was like we turned Ryan Tran's life into
a movie and we thought turned was like
not as powerful a word to be so early in
the title
>> and we're trying to like find a more
emotional word and then we landed on
surprised. we surprised Ryan Tran with
his own movie and it just like clicked
like that's way better because
>> I think we landed on surprise but it was
still we surprised Ryan Tran with a
movie
>> but then that doesn't show that we've
>> all the work we've done to like make it
about his life.
>> So then adding with his own movie
>> really
>> it just like it clicked then like that's
it that's the one.
>> Wow. It's so cool to hear the like
iterations of that and how every
character truly matters and every little
touch in the thumbnail. Um, but I think
you guys have unlocked something now
where it's like anytime I see a creator
that has successful videos that are a
fill in the blank,
>> it's a game changer. You know, you guys
have
>> you can repeat it.
>> You can repeat it.
>> Yeah. looking at these different formats
you have like if Blank's life was a
movie, you know, if Eric's life was a
movie, if Ryan Tran's life was a movie,
if Mark Robber's life was a movie, if
Emma Chamberlain's life was a movie, it
just seems like you guys are really like
dialed in with like what's working on
YouTube after being so far removed from
that with your first era, your first
>> up. Yeah, the repeatable thing has its
downside.
>> Mhm. where we uh I think once we did the
Mark Robbo one next. Yeah. We were like,
"How do we up how do we like turn things
up? How do we up the stakes?"
>> Yeah. We were going to change the
thumbnail and and title and just like
>> try something new.
>> But I think we just decided that like we
want to make it feel similar and and um
familiar
>> familiar to the audience that it's the
exact same thing but with a different
creator. But on the inside of the video,
it's like we don't want to um just do
the same thing. It had to be a higher
risk.
>> So in that video, we decided instead of
like organizing with the creator to meet
us somewhere, we would surprise them
completely where they don't even realize
they're rocking up to their own premier.
>> And this was our boss one.
>> Yeah, this is Mark Robot.
>> Risky stuff.
>> Very scary. So, but we felt like we had
enough like, you know, connection with
Mark Rover's team
>> to like do it in a respectful way,
>> which you guys are now on like like So,
I assume you're like on the internal
pink like
>> Yeah. Like, guys, what if Mark Ro was
next and everyone's like, "Yeah, let's
help you out."
>> It's amazing.
>> Um, so that was the challenge. It was
like after that, like what are we doing
each time that feels like a new risk
>> that isn't just repeating completely?
Yeah. but with a little twist that makes
it harder for us. Cuz now that we have a
connection with the creator, it's not
about finding the creator. It's about
can we get them to a movie theater
without them knowing.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> and there's usually there's usually like
natural stakes that come up in the video
anyways. And we we love to lean into
those.
>> Yeah.
>> Instead of like contriving them
ourselves.
>> But I think um
>> yeah, instead of like forcing your own
stakes in a video, we've learned that
like it's better just to dream big and
then the stakes naturally follow. And so
that's kind of what we've been doing
with like our whole channel really. Just
like let's shoot for the biggest thing
possible and then the content will be
amazing because it'll be so hard to
achieve it.
>> Yeah. What are some of the other like
big moments as you guys are making
trailers you're upping the risk. So So
even though for a lot of viewers the
thumbnail and the packaging may look the
same like now the video experiences
higher stakes. Like what what else are
you guys doing? Uh what are some of
those like moments that like things went
wrong? Um as now like there's more
pressure, more money, like bigger names
involved.
>> Moving to America,
>> that was huge. I think it was around the
Zack King video where we moved to
America and that was like our wives had
never even visited America and they were
down to like just come on this adventure
with us and move their whole lives and
say goodbye to their family and friends
and we all like it was a hard thing for
us all to do. But um that was like a
challenge cuz now it's like there's a
lot more pressure to like make this
channel work
>> and we can't just like revert back to
you know going like revert back to
Australia so easily. Um so that was kind
of like a big leap of faith as well. We
had the ongoing thought that like um
these these videos would lead us to
Jimmy
>> these videos would lead us to like um
doing the Mr. Beast movie and that's why
we started them because we wanted to
make our first feature film.
>> Yeah. And so for a while like we're
repeating the same format and we love
this format. It's so fun. It's like the
dream getting to make these like little
trailers and show it to our favorite
creators. But then because we're so tied
to this dream of like making our first
feature film and making a movie about
Mr. Beast, it's like so easy to get um
you know lost in this pattern of like
making content and that's what you need
to do to survive in this new country,
you know, like it's what pays the bills.
Um, but it was it's so easy to like
forget the goal and the mission of why
you're doing this.
>> And so we had to keep reminding
ourselves of like we're doing this
because we want to make our first
feature film.
>> And if it's not moving the needle
towards that, then we need to innovate
in a way. We kind of got forced into
that by Ryan Tran
>> because he messaged us one day saying,
"I'm going to release a new I'm going to
come out with my Candy Joyide."
>> Yeah.
>> And I want you guys to make a cinematic
commercial for it.
>> Wow. And we were like, wait, this could
be like what we've always wanted to do,
which was what if we cast YouTubers in
movies and like people got to get to see
their favorite YouTuber in a cinematic
mode
>> and it's like another version of, you
know, bringing YouTube and movies
together. Yeah.
>> But just in a different kind of bucket
or or style.
>> Yeah. So instead of surprising them with
their own movie, they are in the movie.
Yeah.
>> And we spend four three four days with
them creating a movie
>> and and then show them the movie at the
end. We thought that was like a great
packaging, too. But it's it just takes
things to the next level. Now we're not
going away making our thing and coming
to show it to them. It's like Ryan's on
set or whoever it is is on set with us
for three days. Can we make sure they
can act? Can we make sure this whole
thing can be amazing?
>> And this is why I think you guys have
built the perfect YouTube channel
because there's a business model now.
>> Yeah.
>> They're hiring you to make a commercial
like they would a creative agency. Yeah.
>> And now all of a sudden you have this
amazing video that showcases the product
Joyide for Ryan. Showcases Ryan in a
more elevated way. Yeah. Um
>> and then your BTS like show it's almost
like a commercial for how like great you
guys are, but but it also now gets
distribution.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So, you guys have been punching
above your weight class, but I could see
a future like where people come to you
not just for you to make the video, but
also to get the BTS of that experience.
>> Yes. Exactly.
>> Um it's like as much a part of the
story.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh and I'm just wanting to just
>> if you could talk more about that
inflection point of
>> the joy ride ad. It even feels weird to
call it an ad, you know? Yeah. I mean,
we try to call we try to call everything
we make a movie.
>> A movie. And that's why I think like
just going back to it, I think you guys
have built the perfect YouTube channel
because um and it was so hard to get
here.
>> But now you guys have a product or a
service that people can see. And I I
think a lot of people like don't realize
it is very hard to sell chocolate, to
sell candy, to sell like like you know
products like as good as they may be.
>> But I think what you guys are doing is
like you're putting out media
And then you're like, "Hey, you could
hire us to make more of this."
>> Because like for this uh format, the We
Surprise format,
>> yeah,
>> we're making the BTS and the trailer and
basically just profiting from like a
brand deal on the BTS or the AdSense,
right?
>> But now it's like we're we're doing that
again where we're making the BTS and the
the short film,
>> but we're being hired to make the short
film and then we can still create.
>> So it's much more profitable that way,
which is great.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Once everyone saw Ryan's joy ride,
then the opportunities just opened up.
Like people were messaging us quite a
bit.
>> And Ryan's so smart for just like
innovating like that. Like
>> I love how he's thinking about always
trying something new on the platform and
like shaking up.
>> Yeah. He's taking risks and
>> he saw this as like a big kind of like
high effort thing that he could do for
his audience.
>> Um but it just allowed us to like Yeah.
It's like a portfolio. When you post a
video, it leads to the next one.
>> Yeah. So that's really cool.
>> What were some of the DMs like people
like came to you with after Ryan's
Joyide commercial slash movie came out?
>> It's like a bunch of YouTubers wanting
like something similar for like products
there. It's like it's a great timing as
well cuz so many YouTubers are launching
products.
>> Yeah.
>> It's like oh this is like the
>> we just got the brunt of it of like oh
we're doing something similar. Yeah.
>> Um and like there's a lot of YouTubers
that um you know in a perfect world if
we had more time we would have we would
have worked with more of them.
>> But we didn't know how long it takes to
make one. So we have to be very
selective.
>> And it reminds me of that quote like
remember uh during the gold rush. It's
like who made the most money. It was not
the people rushing to find the gold. It
was the people selling the axes.
>> I mean
>> you guys are are are selling the axes.
You guys are selling the tools to help
people dig gold or show their gold in
their products. And there's a lot of
products you know. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Who knows how many of them will be
successful, but they all need
commercials and promotion.
>> Yeah. And it's like it's a new way to
like get the audience's attention um
when launching a product. Like it's so
cool to drop like a really high effort
commercial. You see like streamers doing
it when they're like, you know,
announcing their subathons or like
>> speeds like uh America Tour.
>> That was such a cool video.
>> His trailer for that was I mean very
cinematic. Yeah. Or Kai with his um
mafia thons. Yeah. Mhm.
>> So, it's like a known thing that like
when you're launching something that's
you want the audience to really take
seriously, you should take it seriously.
>> Yeah. You're allowed to like put more
high quality like high production value.
It's it's good that there's like a
culture on YouTube where it's like
sometimes this kind of movie is
expected.
>> I I want to actually ask you guys to
look at this clip from the first few
seconds of that Joy Right ad with Ryan.
Or this is actually the second one cuz
Ryan hired you to make another one. And
I think even though you guys are
bringing cinema and film to YouTube,
you're still respecting the rules and
our expectations. And I just want you to
talk about the opening scene because it
felt like one of Ryan's normal videos.
But little did we know.
>> Hey guys. Um, if you've been watching my
videos, you probably know that a year
ago I launched Joyide, my candy. The
idea for this was what would it look
like if Ryan had to make an apology
video
>> and it's like saying sorry he's just in
his bedroom
>> but then the camera swings around slowly
and you realize you're in a movie.
>> He's held hostage. He's
>> held hostage. And I think there's
something so interesting about like
seeing your favorite YouTuber in danger
and then like that's the perfect way to
start a movie like oh my gosh like get
him out.
>> I want him out. I want help.
>> You have instant connection to this
story like okay our favorite YouTuber is
in trouble. Immediate attention. Yeah.
Yeah. That's right. And the previous one
you did with Ryan, the first Joy Ride
commercial, it started out as like a
selfie video.
>> He was quitting.
>> Quitting when when every YouTuber was
like retiring.
>> Exactly. It was perfect. Matt Pat and a
bunch of different YouTubers.
>> Top Scott.
So was that like you guys
>> like thinking okay we want to make it
cinematic but we don't want to like you
know
>> do something that just kind of like
breaks the rules of YouTube or like how
do you I just thought that was a great
way to turn the the you know come in.
It's
>> been Yeah. It would have been very
jarring if we just started it cinematic.
>> Yeah.
>> And so even Ryan agreed like we need to
make it feel like it's just another
video
>> and then you get like we subvert the
expectations and now they're on for the
ride. They want to see like what this
movie is cuz they were tricked. And I
think when you when you trick the
audience like that, sometimes it can uh
sometimes it doesn't work when they
don't like the the result of what how
they were tricked.
>> You have to trick them with a better
surprise. Like this is a better video
than what you clicked on for
>> and then they feel like they have so
much trust in the director or the
creator like, "Oh, they they tricked me.
Like I'm I'm all in. If they if they are
one step ahead of me, then I think this
video is going to be amazing." And I
think that's what makes people lean in
>> like When you switch into cinematic
mode, it kind of captures like what our
channel's about, which is like YouTube
and movies.
>> Yeah.
>> And like that moment where we switch is
like the funnest part for those videos
>> cuz you can really have fun with it.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, how else do you think about like
blending those two worlds of like cinema
and and and YouTube when you're making
your own videos, you're making these
commercials for YouTubers? Like tell me
more about that because I think too many
filmmakers swing way to the right.
>> Yeah. you know, and then it's like,
well, this is too high brow for what
this platform is. You know, context
defines content and so many YouTubers
like maybe too many retention cuts. It
just feels too low. Like you guys are in
that sweet spot. How do you do that?
>> One of the things we decided like when
we started the channel together was like
we don't want to be an education channel
and we love education channels.
>> Wow. Thanks guys.
>> Well, we don't want to be a film making
a film making education channel.
>> Film making education channel
specifically. like here's here's like
five lenses you could try.
>> We love watching that and like we love
the tech. We love geeking out on like
cameras, but we for what we wanted to
do, we wanted to make movies.
>> Is that the quickest way of getting
there? Probably not.
>> Also, is it what we enjoy doing? Like
the reason we want to make movies is to
entertain.
>> So, we knew we needed to like make a
channel that entertains. Y
>> so that people are more excited about
>> seeing our actual work. M
>> so it was all about how do we get them
to excited to see our work so then that
they're not just excited to see how we
did it but actually watch what we love
making
>> but then also
>> the pool of audience for a film making
tutorial channel is much smaller than
entertainment YouTubers
>> because
>> you have like a small niche within a
niche
>> that you're trying to reach or you could
try and go as broad as possible. So that
was the goal, like let's go as broad as
possible.
>> There's something as a filmmaker that's
just like,
>> you know, it's there's tension because
you don't, you know, like a lot of
filmmakers might not like these kinds of
thumbnails
>> um
>> or even just like the intros of the BTS
or
>> Yeah. Like we're we're willing to play
the game that YouTubers play that
YouTubers have like um perfected
>> because we know it's going to lead
people to watch our films, but we also
don't find it as a compromise. like we
find we're trying to find the beauty in
and trying to find like how can we
actually entertain people and make an a
really interesting behind the scenes
video that um that might not be like the
the perfect filmmakery way to do it
>> but really captures someone's attention
because I think we we try to balance
that really well with like
>> yeah on the other side of that is like I
think if you compare our YouTube videos
our YouTube style videos to other
YouTubers
>> your BTS style videos
>> our BTSes
you'll see like they are more
reminiscent of movies and inspired by
movies. Like the first act is usually
like some sort of heist scene where
we're collecting characters to help us
get into the second act and then the
second act is us like
>> making
>> doing like creating the thing and then
the final act is like this big finale.
>> But there's a lot of times that we'll
like try to get inspired from the media
like the medium of movies.
>> Yeah. Which is cool because like I think
the best art or the best like the way
that you can like get really inspired
well and create something unique is when
you're getting inspired from a medium
outside of the medium.
>> Yes. Yeah.
>> Like movies like the coolest movies are
like when they're inspired by a book.
>> Yes.
>> And then the coolest YouTube videos are
when they're inspired by a movie or a
book.
>> Yeah.
>> Or like a comic book or something like
that. And yeah, I think there's like
that's what we try to do with our videos
is like be inspired by movies.
>> I couldn't agree more. I always like to
think that um like remixing across
mediums and
>> eras are always the most interesting. So
like when I was interviewing Zack King,
he's like, "Yeah, I got inspiration from
Buster Katon."
>> And most people on YouTube or Tik Tok or
Instagram don't know who that is.
>> But actually, if you look at some of his
videos side by side, he's elevating that
art form from 100 years ago.
>> Yeah. Um, so I think you guys are it's
interesting that like you guys are
finding inspiration in uncommon places.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> I know that's a lot about long form. So
I want to talk about how you guys make
shorts cuz you made shorts with Mark
Robber for years. Uh, so I want to ask
you to break down one of Mark Robber's
shorts that you guys made right now.
>> So fun.
>> All right, let's do it. Let's do it.
>> This is one of my favorite shorts.
>> Yeah.
>> This is a slinky and this is the world's
first infinite slinky staircase. And I
made it because as a kid I would
>> pause right there. So I think shorts
it's any YouTube video but shorts
especially it's great to start with
something very simple
>> very recognizable. Everyone knows what a
slinky is. So in like Mark fashion this
is a slinky.
>> And then two seconds in you're
subverting their expectations and
showing something that you haven't seen
before that's unfamiliar.
>> And now everyone's hooked because you're
like how did he make that thing?
>> Yeah. How did he turn something I know
and love into something way cooler.
>> It instantly went from relatable to
completely unrelatable in like 2
seconds.
>> Yeah. And this wasn't the first time we
did it. We tried this on the Jell-O
short.
>> It's like this is a pound of Jell-O and
this is 10,000 pounds of Jell-O or
something like that.
>> Oh, the egg one. I was like, "This is an
egg,
>> but this is an egg that was soaked in
vinegar."
>> American accents are coming through. Um,
>> but yeah. But this one really banged
because I think it's just such a simple
captivating intro
>> and then engineering is a great medium
for telling a story
>> because you have something that you want
to create and then you trying to like
overcome the obstacles to create that
thing. So really the the meat of these
Mark Robber videos is Mark trying to
overcome obstacles to create this
magical amazing
>> um invention.
>> Yeah. And so then we geeked out on how
to like tell those stories. So it would
be how do we find the cause and effect
in his engineering like journey which he
does a really well like
>> he was already doing this on his long
>> he does this in his long form but we
just found it really fun to create these
little stories out of the builds.
>> So and if you can make it as relatable
as possible where like it's a childhood
memory that he's trying to like um you
know create like a full circle moment
with or he's like trying to Yeah. So,
for example, for this,
>> yeah,
>> he's saying, let's let's just keep
watching it.
>> And I made it because as a kid, I would
always try and see how many stairs I
could get my Slinky to climb down
>> with my record, sadly.
>> So, his goal is to see how many stairs
his Slinky can climb down.
>> And that's his that was that was his
goal since being a kid. So, if he can
create this thing, it's going to achieve
a lifelong goal that probably a lot of
kids can relate with.
>> I see a parallel kind of like with your
lifelong goal to make a movie about Mr.
Beast. you know, now it's like in a
short but about
>> I mean, if you can make it as like
meaningful as possible, people relate
with it way more.
>> Yeah. I think like we on YouTube
sometimes think, oh, it's just like a
fun random video, but like we like to
try and find a meaning that everyone
could connect to like in I don't know
like really good music artists or like
filmmakers, they'll find a universal
connection first
>> and then get into the story.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And that's exactly what we
did. So, we've we've gotten the crazy
hook. We've got the crazy we've got the
relatable
>> Yeah.
>> why
>> climb down.
>> With my record sadly always maxing out
at seven or eight, I decided now that
I'm an engineer, it was time to avenge
this childhood frustration to set an
unbeatable world record. Using a
treadmill tilted at just the right
angle. The problem with that is there
was very little repeatability because
the landing surfaces were inclined
unlike actual stairs. So, to solve that
issue, I tried an actual escalator. And
although that works,
>> so basically the rest of this short is
him triing different methods until he
gets it right and gets one step closer
each time.
>> And so he's adding different parts to
this build until he nails it and you get
to the final invention. So it's a really
clear like story structure of him
>> trying to crack the code on what this
build is and how he can avenge his
childhood frustrations.
>> What's the creative process with Mark to
make that short? Like are you guys
scripting it? Are are you guys doing a
like a test shoot with you like in
Mark's place as you go through it?
Because like everything has to hit for a
short to do this well.
>> Yeah.
>> Um like what is that process to get
there um and produce like one of these
two of these every week like you did?
>> Yeah. At at first when we were still in
Australia, we would shoot the whole
thing with ourselves as standins
>> and we'd send it to Mark and he'd he'd
give us notes or tell us what he
thought. And then as we when we moved to
America, it became a lot easier. We're
shooting with him.
>> And so we would kind of have an ideation
meeting together and he would kind of
say, "I'd love to do a short about this
or I'd love to do a short about this."
>> We go write that.
>> Yeah. So we would come up with the ideas
together. Yeah.
>> And once he gets it into his list when
we're like, "Okay, we're shooting these
ones this week." We just talk about like
the intro really quick. Like
>> what like what's our angle here?
>> And Mark will throw some ideas. We'll
throw some ideas. And then we'll pick
like, "Okay, that's a good like starting
point." Then we go away, write the
thing,
>> come back, show Mark, he'll tweak it.
>> And like by like we really got close to
like writing in his voice, which is
always a tricky thing to like perfect
cuz as a creator, it's like that's the
one thing that you have that is really
hard to train, right?
>> Like
>> teaching someone else to write in your
voice is very difficult.
>> And so we were trying to like we really
wanted to get it really close for him.
So it made it as easy as possible for
everyone to make these shorts. Yeah.
>> And so it was fun like sending Mark
scripts and he'd be like, "I wouldn't
say like that. I'd say like this or
sometimes nailing it and he'd be super
impressed."
>> After a little bit, he would he was like
really like happy with how we captured
his voice and he's like, "You guys are
doing this really well." Like so that
was like a good moment where he started
trusting us more. We were able to do
more and
>> and that's when they kind of just
started taking off.
>> Yeah. Were there any notes that Mark
gave you guys on your videos, your
drafts, your scripts that was memorable?
I mean, because it's like you guys in a
room, it's like three YouTube geniuses
at work.
>> Like, was there anything that you
learned from Mark when making this like
very very tactical that comes to mind?
>> I mean, literally one of the first
shorts we created with him was the
modified bowling ball.
>> And that was actually a trial short that
we made as as an audition, as like our
um as an application. And it's like one
of his best performing shorts today. And
and that was like a real moment for Mark
to be like, whoa, these guys like nailed
it first try. And we were shocked, too.
Like, how did that how did that happen?
>> But yeah, like he would give really good
notes. Trying to think of some. Um, in
general,
>> it was like little little things about
how he would say something.
>> Yeah.
>> Or we would try and take a a stab at the
like science explanations and then he
would tweak those because we have no
clue about science. because I ask
because I think um there's more up and
cominging creators that are going to be
in your positions working for the bigger
guys before
>> you know they they grow themselves and I
and I think
>> one of the hardest things and like I'll
share my perspective like hiring and
growing our team to nine people now it's
like hard to find somebody who will
learn my style and my voice such that
when I'm reviewing something of theirs
they've gotten closer to what I would
have done if I was like just pouring
over that versus the other things that
I'm not balancing and you guys seem to
have got it like that. So, so I'm
wondering
>> like were there other things that you
did to try to like pick up on like what
would make like a good Mark Robber short
not being Mark Robber yourselves? I
mean, we would watch all his videos,
just like every single one, just even in
our spare time,
>> just to really immerse ourselves in how
Mark speaks,
>> what he like how he tells a story.
>> And I think that's one of the most
valuable things to like a bigger
creator, like someone who genuinely
knows how they how they talk
>> and how like his vocabulary, how he
likes to banter,
>> even the inflections in how he says a
line. We would write things and like
highlight in bold like how he would say
emphasize a word
>> like what
>> uh like um what's this one? This is
>> pull up a Yeah, maybe in the slinky one
we'll find
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> a moment. It's like in every video
there's like a funny inflection.
>> And I made it because as a kid I would
always try and see how many stairs I
could get my slinky to climb down. With
my record sadly always maxing out at
seven or eight. I decided now that I'm
an engineer, it was time to avenge this
childhood frustration to set an
unbeatable world record.
>> It was time to avenge this childhood
frustration to beat
>> to set an unbeatable world record.
>> And it's like sometimes when we're
writing it out, we have to say it in
like a Mark Rub accent.
>> Yeah. Your accent changed there. Yeah.
>> But like it helps us like pitch it to
Mark on how it should be sounding like
>> um
>> because he always like it's a very like
natural thing for him the way he talks.
Yeah. but he's fine-tuned it over the
years
>> and like if you look his earlier videos
he'll be like quite monotone and and
it's very similar all throughout but now
he like peaks his like
>> this is a well that's one example this
is but then sometimes like
>> and then I went to
>> you sound crazy
>> no it actually I think I think maybe the
more specific it's like it's every
creator has their own melody.
>> Yes. And we figured that out pretty
quickly. And then like I think from
there he could really trust us with
helping write the scripts more.
>> Yeah.
>> Can we see one of the early Maybe we'll
put a before.
>> We literally have a before and after of
one of our first uh shorts
>> when it's us doing it.
>> Oh my god.
>> This is a floating hot dog and I have
nine more items that
>> I'll send it to you. Instead of a hot
dog, we're holding a banana.
>> Wow.
>> This is a floating hot dog and I have
nine more random items that probably
shouldn't be suspended in midair. This
is a floating hot dog and I have nine
more items that probably shouldn't be
suspended in midair.
>> Yeah, it's cool to see the behind the
scenes and like props to Mark. I mean,
it's like it takes a great manager, not
just a creator, to be able to see that
talent and grow it and give you guys
notes.
>> Um, so, you know, you guys were part of
a team that helped Mark Robber go from
25 to over 60 million subscribers.
>> Pretty crazy. I mean like there was a
point every week he was just hitting a
new 10 mil milestone and we're just like
making these like 10 mil shorts
>> and it was through the shorts like like
obviously there was a team with us
Mark's like um you know genius
strategies and stuff but to see how
shorts helped the subscriber count go up
so quickly was wild.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's I mean yeah shorts
obviously drive a ton of subscriber and
the way you guys were like doing some of
the call to actions was really genius
and and again Mark the whole team they
they like deserve a world of credit for
creating this environment. Um, I'm
curious to go back into like your story,
like what were you guys thinking at this
moment where like things are now flying
high at the day job, you know, with Mark
and your YouTube channel is crushing
>> at this point. You've done a few
commercials for creators, right? Like
Joyide, um, Unspeakable,
>> Nick DGI, like you guys have done a few
commercials. not that business model of
of sticks as a advertising agency. I
hate using that phrase, but just to put
it in terms um for other folks to
understand
>> that's taking off.
>> What's your decision-making process at
at at that point in terms of do we
continue with Mark? Do you go all in on
your channel? Like
>> like that is a champagne problem.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean tricky. Mark was super gracious
the whole time even letting us like you
know try tackle both
>> and he is the biggest fan of our channel
and like loved every time we posted and
seeing our videos.
>> Um yeah there came a point where we're
just like we can't do both of them
forever
>> and we wanted to like end on a high with
Mark and not like we wanted to keep the
the product that we're producing for him
really high
>> and we started to see like our channels
becoming more demanding. Also, it's just
our dream like to chase our own channel.
We knew we wouldn't be working for
someone else for too long.
>> Yeah.
>> And Mark would say like, "I'll have you
as long as you guys will stay."
>> And then we just realized like 2025, we
need to go all in on our channel.
>> We have like so many ideas, such big
dreams, we want to make movies.
>> The hard part is Mark is this guy who's
worked for Apple until he hit 10
million. I was going to say like
>> so it's like how do you tell the guy
who's done that that we want to stop at
less than a million?
>> Yeah.
>> So
>> what were those conversations like? Did
he like try to up the pay like create
incentive? I mean like if I were hiring
you guys I would try to do everything I
can to create a structure where you know
we're all growing together.
>> He had he had a good pay structure. So
like we were incentivized to stay in in
a very good way. Like
>> very generous of him to like give us
that opportunity. So, we had to
like deny that really good long-term
kind of like um
>> benefit
>> and say like because we believe in
Mark's channel so much and Crunch Labs,
it's like such a it's like skyrocketing.
So, it was very hard to jump off that
ship.
>> But, we do know there are ways we can
collaborate with him in the future and
there's definitely
>> some
>> some stuff cooking up. some stuff
cooking up cuz there's like a world
where we said no to that job offer
initially
>> when we applied to it.
>> The Mark the Mark's initial job like to
be a shortter.
>> Yeah. And I think like it's so Yeah. You
really have to like swallow your pride
to take a job for someone else when you
really want to do your own thing.
>> And I'm glad we did because it's like
there's definitely so many moments where
we look back going I'm so it was so
worth it to like work with him and the
amount of stuff we learned and
>> yeah it was a it was a great
>> But Mark Robot like working for Mark
Robber is still a dream. So it's like it
was easy to swallow Al pride. But
>> no, but I mean everybody that that's the
number one thing that I find when hiring
people or creators are up and coming is
that working for another creator or
working a creative job. Um and obviously
like Mark Robber like that is like the
pinnacle of what that looks like. that
any job where you could learn um kind of
accelerates your dream when you go
towards it versus delaying it because
you're putting it on hold cuz
>> you're just exposed to so many blind
spots like people that have come on our
team and like you know like they're now
like working at other companies I still
try to look after them or connect the
dots and I think there's a lot of
goodwill when you do a lot of good work.
>> Yeah.
>> And clearly you guys have done that.
>> Yeah. Thank you.
>> Thanks.
>> Okay. So, you you left your full-time
jobs uh with Mark Robber and then tell
me like h how do things like pick up
with Mr. Beast like for this movie? Like
we didn't even talk about that yet. Like
that's the craziest chapter of like the
stick story so far. Like Okay. Okay. So,
take me through that. And I have a lot
of questions about where this movie for
like Mr. Beast is at now cuz in the past
few days, weeks like things have like
moved so fast and I'm excited to be
talking to you guys at this inflection
point. Yeah. When did things like start
to pick up with Jimmy?
>> It's it's so poetic. Like the the week I
think or like a couple weeks between us
leaving Mark
um that's when we got the DM from Jimmy.
>> Wait, you guys honestly Wow. I keep
saying you guys have like serious balls
because you left your job before you
heard from Jimmy.
>> Yes.
>> I thought it was the other way around.
>> No.
>> Yeah. But we said we were saying we told
him like I think in like October 2024
like hey starting in
>> January 2025 we probably want to like do
our own channel
>> but yeah it was
>> December
>> it was December 2024 Jimmy DM'd us
>> and that just like completely shocked us
because
>> maybe in our videos it seems like we
have a connection with Jimmy through
like Mark Robber or something but we'd
never spoken to him. We' never DM'd him.
We didn't have his number. had never met
him
>> and he reached out to us um DM'd all of
our Instagrams. DM'd us on Instagram.
>> Just our personal ones and then the
Sticks account.
>> Yeah. And we were just like, "Is this
real or is this like one of those scam
accounts?"
>> It is amazing when Jimmy wants to get in
touch with you and then you get on that
call. It's usually a FaceTime audio
call. Like I don't like Yeah. Like it's
it's amazing how uh like like high touch
and and like you know when when he wants
to get in touch with somebody it happens
obviously, you know. Yeah, definitely.
>> But yeah, where did it go from there?
>> So, we were um we were actually on this
shoot for this Nick the Giovani project.
>> Yeah.
>> And it was the night we kind of
>> arrived in Boston.
>> We got settled into our Airbnb and then
I checked my phone like,
>> "Is that real?" And I showed Lucas and
we start filming just in case it's real.
>> And there was a message from Mr. Beast
and he just said, "Howdy."
>> And we were like, "What?" Like
everything we've been trying to do even
before our YouTube channel like has come
to this. And and not that a DM from him
is everything, but it just showed that
we were trying to like we we started out
with this goal of like making a Mr.
Beast movie
>> and look how close we are right now.
Look how look how we we've jumped up the
attention of like the world's biggest
YouTuber.
>> So that one DM meant a lot to us
>> and and just the fact that we we never
tried to DM him or like try and get to
through to his team because we wanted it
to be like some like mutual that he
wanted to talk to us. Yeah.
>> So, we were always just like,
>> you know, let it happen if it happens.
>> Um, which was just a big surprise, like
getting that DM.
>> Yeah.
>> And to put that in further context, the
goal when you guys are like made that
video with Mark Robber at the end was
like Mark said, "I'll put you in touch
with Jimmy when you hit 5 million
subscribers."
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And here you guys are at one.
>> I know.
>> And and he reached out.
>> Exactly.
>> Crazy. Like we we had this channel goal.
We We still have it, but
>> we have this channel goal of like
getting a meeting with Mr. beast when we
hit 5 mil
>> and we got that meeting before we hit 1
mil. Yeah.
>> So, it's just crazy how quickly that
happened.
>> Yeah. And tell me about that meeting
with Mr. Beast. Like, what are you guys
talking about? Like, how does it go? So,
we had that initial call with him a
couple weeks after he tried after a
couple weeks after he DM'd us
>> and we basically pitched him the idea on
the phone and we we didn't know if he
had heard about it yet or what he
thought, but his reaction was just like
like huge green flags like
>> so awesome. Like he's just like yelling
into the phone
>> and we were like, "Oh, this is actually
like he he sees this as a really good
idea."
>> And that's just a compliment for like
coming from someone as like smart as
Jimmy. like if he thinks this is a good
idea, then it is like
>> Yeah.
>> You know what I mean?
>> Um
>> so then he invites us to um his studio
in Greenville.
>> And so we we rock up and you see it in
our video. We're just like, you know,
we're just here to hang out, but we want
to talk about the movie. Like we want to
see
>> what his reaction to be if we talk a
little deeper about what we are planning
to do. And so we, you know, he he
creates some time for us, gets us in a
room in his studio,
>> and he was so generous with his time.
Like we did not expect, we thought we'd
have like 10 minutes with him and be we
would be super grateful, but we hung out
the whole day.
>> That that is the most amazing thing when
when Jimmy's excited about something, he
gives it space and and time. And I' I've
experienced it's like it's amazing given
how big he is, you know?
>> Yeah. It was crazy. I mean, we watched
like he gave us a sneak peek of all the
Beast Games episodes
>> until like 3:00 a.m. We're watching his
>> Of course. Yeah.
>> So that was fun.
>> And how do you go into that? Like are
you preparing with like um pitch
materials, a script like like you guys
are very thoughtful when you get your
moments
>> like what did you do in those
>> you know meetings with Jimmy to kind of
>> share the idea of your mo the movie the
vision like to kind of move the
conversation along?
>> Yeah. I mean luckily we'd been thinking
about it for the past like three or four
years already. We had this pitch deck
planned before we started this channel
>> um before the channel took off. Yeah,
>> but we kind of made the decision like in
the hotel the night before like I mean
we don't have to show him this pitch
deck. Like our channel is the pitch
deck.
>> Our goal, our drive, like all the videos
we've made is all he needs to know if
like we can do this or not.
>> Um and there's also an element of like
>> do we need to like prove this to Jimmy
or are we still going to do it without
his like you know without his yes. Um,
so that's always like a interesting
element to all this is like we're making
a movie about a real person
>> and we definitely want their blessing.
>> Um, but not necessarily like want to
make it with Jimmy.
>> So there's just a tricky there's a
there's an interesting element that's
very real that we need to like still
figure out.
>> We knew it was more about building trust
and like sharing our concept for this
thing and then if he's cool with it,
he's going to just let us run with it.
Which was what happened. He was just
like, "Oh, this sounds great. like let
me know how you go.
>> And that was the perfect kind of like
>> balance of Yeah.
>> But also he was like um very interested
in like partnering on it.
>> Yeah.
>> So it's still in the works. We don't
know how it's going to end up.
>> Um but it's exciting either way.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean there's a lot of people who would
hate for us to partner with him.
>> There's a lot of people who would love
for us to part partner with him.
>> But it's that's all irrelevant. It's
more like we just want to tell the story
we want to tell.
>> Yeah. And um whatever lets us get to
that Yeah.
>> is going to be the avenue.
>> Yeah. How do you walk that line to make
a movie about Mr. Beast, not for Mr.
Beast? Yeah.
>> Where you guys are telling
>> Mr. Beast's full story, like the full
truth, like everything that's happened.
um like how do you go about doing that
and and and maintaining like the um
>> yeah like all all the stuff that like uh
has happened.
>> Yeah.
>> Like the the way we're thinking about it
as storytellers is
>> we want to look at the truth and the
accurate kind of like telling of his
story and then find something in it that
we want to tell
>> and that's uh like that's what's guiding
us. So, we're not too worried about, you
know, the public's perception or like
what he would like to put be put in it
or stuff like that. We're just wanting
to write what is in our hearts to write.
>> Now, when you're also like we're
building a connection, friendship with
Jimmy, um we want to honor that.
>> We, you know, we definitely see that as
like something to value
>> and we also owe it to the audience not
to like side like side with one way too
much. So, it's actually like that's
probably been the hardest part
>> of like walking that line of
>> we're trying to document our journey on
YouTube and document our journey to
making this movie as raw and as
authentic as possible to our audience,
>> but then also have like real stakes with
like this, you know, we have a
friendship with Jimmy and like we want
to make sure that
>> um we're keeping that trust.
>> Yeah. But yeah, we also when it comes to
like just being an unbiased like trusted
story here, we don't want it to feel
like a Jimmy Puff piece or like we don't
want to feel like it's a beast
production movie.
>> It's not.
>> Um
>> but there are there are ways to work
with Jimmy and the team to make this the
best story that we want to tell.
>> You know, accuracy and um you know,
hearing parts of his story that aren't
on the internet.
>> Yeah. Going deeper.
>> There's incentive for everyone to work
together on it. I I mean I I I feel that
on a personal level because um anytime
we do our behind the scenes shoots with
Jimmy, we try to do the same like how do
we share the full story and then I was
telling you guys like we just wrapped
this 45day shoot with Jimmy to do this
docu series about his life and the
making of Beast Games.
>> Yeah.
>> And they led us everywhere.
>> Wow.
>> Wow. you know, and we had like, you
know, six to seven like camera ops like
on the ground like for the 45 days and
just like capturing everything because
like you know, Jimmy and his team like
really just wanted to share like how
things like happen with the show and how
things get done and and uh I'm just
excited to see like what you guys find
and what you focus on.
>> Yeah. And um
>> and we've noticed that he's been very
vulnerable like and open like you can
ask anything. you can um you know just
find out what you want to know about my
story. It's hasn't been any like um
barriers.
>> So that's a good sign.
>> Yeah.
>> No, it's a it's a beautiful thing and I
I just can't wait to see what you guys
uh you know put out. Um
>> is a movie going to cost $20 million?
>> I mean, we put that in the title because
it looked good.
>> Yeah.
>> But yeah, that's that's within the range
of like what this could be. We we need
to like create a real like budget for
it. M.
>> So, we don't want to say yes or no.
>> I mean, the good thing is we've learned
how to create something really awesome
with just like a few dollars.
>> And so, um, yeah, I think the more money
we can work with, the better we can make
it. I think we have this feeling that
it's just going to smash.
>> Yeah.
>> But there only time will tell really.
>> I I I think it will. I mean, the like
also the way it's being framed like the
social network, but
>> for Mr. Beast, like um how are you
funding it? Like trying to get that 20
million. Um, are you trying to go down
the studio route? Like, are you trying
to self-fund like crow like crowdfund?
Like,
>> what are you guys doing to make that
movie happen? Is Jimmy helping? Is that
off limits? Like, like take me through
like
>> the business of making a movie that big?
>> So, the good side of this is we feel
like we have more options than we need,
which is crazy to say.
>> Yeah.
>> Like, we've had studios reach out um and
had good conversations
>> already. Wow. Like are we talking about
the big studios?
>> Yeah. Like I would say them, but like
some of the big studios that make the
big movies that we all watch.
>> Wow. Some of our favorite movies.
>> Like one of them one of them
accidentally emailed like my childhood
email. Like a massive movie studio sent
an email to like my personal like email
I created.
>> If you didn't check it, we wouldn't have
like had this.
>> I checked the spam folder and it was
there for some reason
>> like football fan like 95 like
>> it's like my hot mail.
>> Um and so lucky I checked it. But yeah,
I mean there's like
>> what did the email say? They they saw
your YouTube video. Like what was that
point of because because to cross that
um barrier into a studio execs inbox or
awareness takes another thing especially
for a YouTuber like what was that email?
>> Yeah, it was some it was something about
like we've seen your YouTube channel and
like we love what you're doing and um
your YouTube videos are crazy. We love
the idea of like this beast movie. Like
let's let's talk about it and see how we
can make it happen.
>> And um like that's crazy.
And so we're like trying to digest that
but also not move too fast or we make
the wrong decision. So we're still in
this place of trying to work out how we
want to fund it
>> because what we can say is like we want
full creative control. We want to make
sure that we're distributing in the way
we like
>> and we also um yeah we also don't want
to be too tied down because when you up
the budgets
>> there's strings attached.
>> Yeah. So, we're really like learning and
trying to figure out the best way to
make this particular movie.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's our first time doing it. So,
>> I mean, that's the hard part. Like,
>> we've we've made these trailers before
and and we feel like we're getting great
at that, but like making a feature film
is obviously a different beast.
>> Didn't mean to say that.
>> Yeah.
>> But,
>> yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, what are you guys learning so far? I
I I can't wait to like
>> hear more about the D. I know we're
still in the first inning of it, but
like making a movie, like there's so
many like
>> legacy things that go into it, like you
know, the way you hire, the way you like
like are there anything else that you've
learning right now as you're like trying
to put this movie? Wait, is it
happening?
>> Like is it in pre-production right now?
>> Um, we we've been working on the script
>> script. Okay, so you guys are working on
script in the early stages.
>> Wow. Yeah,
>> but we had a writer retreat where we
like hired like an Airbnb for a week and
just like locked in on the script
>> and we just got so excited with like
what we got had a really productive
week.
>> Like that's our favorite part. Like the
story is just what we obsess over.
>> Wow.
>> So now that like we're so excited about
the story like it's more clear to us.
>> Yeah.
>> It's about to get really fast like the
>> we're going to roll into like figuring
out
>> um
>> how we want to do it, how we want to
fund it, and when we want to shoot it,
stuff like that. I I'm so excited for
you guys because I feel like you're
you're putting YouTubers on your back
and just, you know, showing where this
could go.
>> Yeah.
>> And the hard part is like having a
channel at the same time. Like we don't
want to forsake the channel and our
audience that we've built.
>> So it's like that's the thing that we're
learning is like how do we take how do
we tackle such a big project while
maintaining the consistency. take me
through that because I think there's a
lot of things about Hollywood that you
apply to YouTube videos that I think
you're almost making this new blueprint
like you guys have reinvented like how
to succeed on YouTube and how to like
you know improve your retention. Um what
are some of those principles that you
guys use in your videos that you think
any YouTuber watching starting out can
learn from um to improve their craft?
>> Yeah, for sure.
One really cool thing that we've taken
from movies is the idea of cause and
effect.
>> Yeah.
>> Which means nothing happens in your
video unless it's been caused by
something else.
>> And that's just like the story structure
of a script. Y
>> So the first thing you start with a
movie is like a character with a goal
and a conflict.
>> And then their first act is met with
conflict and then they have to figure
out a way around that conflict. So that
creates this thing called cause and
effect, which is instead of just a list
of things that this character did that
could be rearranged in any order.
>> Yeah.
>> It creates this chain of events that
can't happen in any other order.
>> Maybe break down the Ryan Treyan like
you surprised him with a movie video.
Like how does that like kind of take
some of these principles from Hollywood
but make it, you know, youtuby?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, we like to use this
little tool of um the wording but and
therefore within your story. Adding
those words in as you tell your story
helps you um create that cause and
effect.
>> Yeah. But like being like, okay, there's
a tension point like an obstacle
>> therefore is how you overcome that
obstacle
>> or cause and effect. Yes.
>> Yeah. Like you guys have talked about.
Yeah.
>> So, we could tell you some of these
story beats and how button therefore.
>> Yeah. I'm curious. Take me through
those. And I'm also curious like after
that like are there stuff you cut out
because it was like an and then or
something like it wasn't it didn't fit
with that. Yeah. So take me the through
the butt and therefore
>> the start of the Ryan Tran video.
>> So uh we wanted to surprise Ryan with
the movie. So we flew to America.
>> That was our goal.
>> Y
>> but when we arrived we didn't have any
connections.
>> Yeah.
>> Therefore
>> therefore we went to Creator Now to see
if we can make a connection.
But no one there could help us. Um,
therefore, we stayed as long as we could
to make sure we could find someone. And
then Zach showed up.
>> But he said, "You have to make a video
if you want me to get if you want me to
connect you with Ryan."
>> Therefore, next scene we're making a
video
>> to get connected.
>> And then it just continues like this
like and and you're keeping our
attention.
>> The idea is this could be the best
retention technique
>> without feeling like one. without
feeling like one. And it feels more like
a movie because that's what movies focus
on. They focus on the moment, the scene
you're in right now.
>> If the tension is real and the conflict
is like real enough,
>> you don't want to click off. Like you
don't you're in the moment in the movie.
>> So, what are those things that you cut
that like cuz you know editing and and
BTS like it it's always a trend down
version of reality um to keep people's
attention. What did you guys cut? Um,
because it didn't feel like it fit in
that but slash therefore framework.
>> The whole
>> BTS shoot got cut down into a certain
way.
>> The like it so when we start shooting,
>> yeah,
>> there's so many things going on. There's
little like obstacles and there's little
winds,
>> but we cut out so much of that if it
doesn't serve the story. So there was
this whole thing where we were trying to
find a trumpet prop for the Ryan Treyan
movie and we didn't have one. We're
trying to look on Facebook Marketplace
and our friend had to drive all around
Texas pretty much to find something
>> and we thought that was like pretty good
tension like we filmed some of it
>> important you know important prop for
the movie. When we get into the edit we
realized that didn't clearly help move
the story forward. M so because the way
we edit our montages is we decided to go
based off the movie the script
>> and not our BTS day by day.
>> Some moments are and then moments and
they don't clearly have a obstacle
connected to the previous
>> action that is worth connecting into
this chain of events. So there's often
times we're cutting out sections of
like, you know, what we had for lunch
that day or
>> um the plane was a little delayed and we
we got on it in the end. It's just like
not worth adding to the story.
>> If there are moments like like we found
while editing this, if there are moments
that we that are just us having fun and
we want to add it to like connect with
the audience, we'll put it right after a
butt
>> and not after a therefore
>> because when there's a butt, there's a
question. It's like how are they going
to overcome this obstacle? Now you have
the curiosity loop of how are they going
to solve that? So that's a good time to
like see us, you know, get Chick-fil-A
or like that's a good time to see us
like shop around for some props and
things like that.
>> But if we did it after a solution and
then we went and wasted the audience
time by showing us vlogging,
>> they click off.
>> You click off.
>> Oh, fascinating. Cuz yeah, you rather do
it after the butt where there's tension.
Yes.
>> It's unresolved.
>> Yeah.
>> And I've seen you guys do you like cut
the music out, you know, you did like a
bit of levity and then get back into it.
>> Yeah, that's right. Um, that's really
Any other like things in your toolkit
that you guys use um to mix cinematic
and YouTube?
>> Yeah, I mean, show don't tell,
everyone's heard of that, but I think
it's it can be like underrated still.
Like I think
>> um
>> the way we cut each scene, we the goal
for us is to make it feel like how it
felt in real life for us. Like when
we're editing this video, for example,
the R train one, we kind of put all the
um footage in the timeline, and just
whenever there was an editing decision
or a music decision or a sound effect
decision, it was always guided by how it
felt in that moment
>> to feel those feelings.
>> And we and we wanted to like go to a
resort to VO last
>> because it's like just telling you the
emotion is the is the least is not is
the worst way to make you feel
something. Wait, say that again because
a lot of YouTubers use voice over.
>> Yeah. So, we try and consider voice over
as a last resort.
>> So, we'll edit we'll put all the footage
in the timeline, you know, put music in,
edit sections, make them shorter,
>> but before we add in a line about the
context or what we're doing in this
part, we'll try and see if it's it can
be told through the editing, if it can
be told through the music, if it can be
told through the sound effects.
>> And then at last resort, we'll add a
line if we need to really explain what
happened in that scene. or a way to like
transition into the next scene
>> or how we're feeling.
>> Yeah. But sometimes a cut can do that.
>> We were so excited after getting a text
message from Ryan that we were like like
on cloud9 ready to shoot this thing.
Nothing could get us down
>> and the next morning our one of our key
actors pulled out cuz he was sick
>> on the day of the shoot.
>> And
>> instead of us like writing a VO line to
like make you feel that, the cut makes
you feel that. Now we just have to make
the best dang trailer we've ever made in
our lives.
>> The college staff actor just pulled out.
He said, "I tested positive for CO this
morning, not feeling well." That was
like the majority of the shoot today.
>> You see us like really excited and then
cut all of a sudden. our faces are so
depressed and I deliver a line on camera
saying our main actor had just pulled
out.
>> Like that is way better than saying,
>> "But you won't believe what happened the
next day."
>> Like that's just more efficient just to
make you feel the emotions.
>> Wow.
>> Rather than having to tell you the
emotions.
>> What other examples or or things you
guys do? Because I I think too many
YouTubers rely on voiceover. Like what
other things have you guys done or
examples like that? I mean, in the
films, in the trailers, there's like a
like very good use of like show don't
tell.
>> Um, especially in this Emma Chamberlain
one, we tried to really lean into that
in the second half especially where just
like it was mainly just beautiful shots.
>> Um, and it wasn't much dialogue
>> and the aspect ratio I remember from
that made me feel like I think it was
4x3. Yeah.
>> It made me feel like nostalgic
>> for memories I didn't even have.
>> Exactly. Like and I think like as
filmmakers there you you're very aware
of like your the the film making tools
and techniques that you can use to make
people feel something
>> and if you carry that into YouTube
>> I mean it's just it's like it's just so
OP.
>> It's underrated on YouTube like not many
people are are using film making
techniques like an aspect ratio
like the color grade the sound effects I
think are really key. Um, even just like
composition,
>> like if you're framing your shots in a
way that says something to avoid just
telling the audience in in voice over.
>> Um, te
>> teach me something about that.
>> Okay.
>> About framing.
>> How does framing and emotion work
together?
>> So, like one framing thing that we do is
we've hired out an entire cinema for one
person and you could frame them like a
close-up cuz they're the only thing in
the frame,
>> right? But we try and start each thing
super wide to make you feel like this is
very important. We did this whole thing
for one person.
>> Wow.
>> There should be a room full of people
here, but we're doing this just for the
one person.
>> Yeah. And you only get that when you see
the wide shot.
>> So little things like that.
>> It also it also like hints at the scale
of what we're trying to do. like this is
a big grand video rather than um
starting tight and not seeing the the
scale, you know?
>> What about music or or sound design?
Like I feel you guys are very deliberate
about that, too.
>> Yeah. I mean, at the end of most of our
videos, we like to create like a little
montage recap of all the feelings you
felt in that video
>> just before you get the climax answer of
like the proposition, for example,
>> cuz it kind of brings the whole context
of the journey squished into like a
30-cond thing that you feel all again
right before you get the final answer.
>> You close every loop. And I think the
way to make sonically, yes.
>> I mean, so we'll put your name in the
credits of the Mr. Beast movie in return
for something.
>> Would you be willing to get us a meeting
with Mr. Beast?
>> I would be very genuine with you. I
immediately believe about
>> sending in three, two,
>> we smashed it.
>> One.
>> Good job.
Oh no.
>> I'm cold in places I shouldn't be cold.
>> Okay.
>> We did it. We did it.
>> So, there's two of us. He'll be able to
shake our hands like this.
>> Okay. Okay.
An idea we had was like, how do we make
this moment feel dreamy and like
nostalgic and make them feel like the
30-minute video they watched was like
something that
>> blur that they just like relived.
>> Yeah. So, we thought adding adding music
that kind of swells and builds up
obviously, but then the and then some
sound effects and like um
>> sound bites throughout the movie,
>> but then
>> throughout the video,
>> but then the secret source of those
moments is like
>> like extending the audio clips further
than the actual film clips and kind of
meshing all the audio together.
>> So, when you're watching it, you don't
you're not really seeing like harsh cuts
or harsh sound cuts. You're feeling like
this weird memory feeling of like
>> overlapping and you can't quite pick out
what is being said, but you get the
feeling. And it's it's L cuts and J
cuts.
>> Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> So, it's just a bunch of really extended
L cuts and J cuts.
>> Yeah.
>> With with long fades and like
>> um I mean we position them so like
perfectly that it like you can still
hear what's being said, but like in a
way that you can't really tell when a
clip ends or starts. It all just feels
like this blur.
>> Yeah. which is how we get like that
dreamy effect at the end of the videos.
>> Oh, it's magical. It's It's so cool.
What What else like what what other
little tricks and and and tips do you
guys use to make your videos as good as
they are?
>> I want to say something about camera
movement.
>> So, I think sometimes the culture on
YouTube is like to film everything the
same way or like at least what I've
seen.
>> And I think we try to film things a
little different when it comes to camera
movement. So like one time on the Ryan
Treyan shoot there was a shot we were
trying to get with Ryan running track
and well the doppelganger and we were
shooting it in a way where the the
camera was still. So our BTS camera was
still as well
>> and we were like small in the frame and
then it was like this very underwhelming
shot of him walking past and Kurt and I
were like this isn't working and then we
hard cut to like all of us in full
sprint. the camera guy, the BTS camera,
and the actor.
>> And this shaky camera just like made you
feel like, whoa, they really made this
shot way more epic.
>> So, that's just like context for us. But
if you film things more to what they
feel like in the moment, sometimes you
should put on a tripod. Sometimes you
should go handheld,
>> sometimes you should try like a push in.
And there's more things you can do with
camera movement to like say something in
the edit.
>> Yeah.
>> Give yourself more to play with.
>> Um, I think that's one.
>> Yeah. or even challenging the more
common way of filming something and
doing it in a different way
>> can also like give it some spice. Like
>> I mean like there's a shot in the one of
our favorite shots in one of our
trailers is in the Emma Chamberlain
video where she's talking on the phone
um by the bathtub
>> and she's talking about how she she
hates that she's always filming herself
>> and it seems like this really beautiful
intimate moment she's having with her
dad until you pan the camera a bit and
you see she's even filming this
conversation
>> and like there's just different ways you
can like get creative with the camera
movement that reveals something or like
paints the story in a completely
different light And and I think that
that is a great example of like when
we've used camera movement really well.
>> Yeah, those are such good practical
tips. I think any YouTuber can learn
from.
>> Um it's cool to see you guys break it
down.
>> Yeah, we're building a team and like
learning from Mark about how he's
building it. He built a team
>> with his voice and that's what we're
doing right now. Yeah.
>> So that we can make a movie.
>> Tell me more about how are you guys
building the sticks team.
>> So how are we doing it? Um, we are like
growing our editing team is the first
play because that takes us the most
amount of time. If we if we have more
editors that kind of hit our standard
and get our vision and kind of capture
our voice,
>> then we can make more videos.
>> Then the other part of that is writing
the scripts and like training people to
write similar to us, like doing more of
a writer's room so that saves us some
time. And so there's elements like that,
plus like getting more producing help so
that people there's other people in our
team deciding when to make the videos
and getting them done on time so that
our head space is kind of like
>> opened up to think about making a
feature film.
>> Yeah.
>> So that's really the the key hires we're
trying to make is like editors,
>> writers, and producers.
>> How big is the team now? Um, we have
about one, two, like they're all
contractors, but
>> around up to 10, nearly 10 people, which
is crazy. I mean, on a on a film set,
it'll be more than that, obviously.
>> Of course. Yeah.
>> Um, but yeah, we've found like some some
really cool guys who are continuing to
work with and it just it's so cool and
rewarding to like find that team and
when when it really clicks, it's so
awesome.
>> Yeah. And what's the business of Stixs
now? because I mean you guys have this
amazing I hate the word flywheel because
it's overused but you you really do.
It's like you make the trailer and you
make the commercial like um you know I'm
about to co-found a company actually
with Zach. Um we're starting a um
accounting company. It's called Boring
Stuff where we handle all the boring
stuff for creators accounting
bookkeeping. If we were to go to you
guys and try to hire Sticks to make a
commercial for us like what's the range?
I'm sure you have different pack but
what's the range of like how much that
costs right now? M
>> should we say a range?
>> Are we talking about are we in six
figures yet?
>> Yeah, we're in six fig.
>> Six figures for for for a commercial.
>> Yeah.
>> And is and then you have like is your
BTS a part of that cuz that's another
different. Yeah. Like we for the
unspeakable one for example, our brand
dealer was um his course that we're
promoting. So like extra advertising to
a whole new audience.
>> They wanted that as an addition to like
sponsor BTS as well.
>> That's amazing.
>> Yeah.
>> So you guys have the commercials that
you're making for creators. you have the
um sponsored slots within the BTS just
like other YouTubers and that could be
like the product that you're making a
product for could double dip you know in
a good way.
>> Um obviously you have the AdSense uh you
have merch on sticks. Store
>> um
>> and uh is there anything else like that
you guys are thinking about to to add to
the business? Um and I also know you
guys are like there's so many things in
your world right now. You guys also just
shot a Feastables ad.
>> Like, how is that? I mean, that also has
to be like high pressure because
>> you're going out to shoot a Fastables
ad. I mean, tell tell me the story, but
but Jimmy is who you're casting in that.
>> Yeah, that's right. And then it's like
it's it did it feel like a try out for
the movie or like your relationship
together like like tell tell me about
that
>> in a sense like I don't think Jimmy sees
it like that. Yeah.
>> But there's no way to get around it like
>> making a movie for Jimmy at this stage
before we want to make a feature film
about Jimmy.
>> It's going to affect like what like our
dream.
>> Yeah.
>> So like
>> and what he thinks of you guys what he
thinks of us. It's like building trust.
It's building trust. if if it was a
complete flop, like no one would trust
us to make the Mr. Beast movie.
>> Yeah. And to give more context, what did
um Jimmy and the Fastables team asked
you to make? Like how did that come
about? Were you guys there in Greenville
talking about the movie? And they're
like, "By the way, you should make a ad
for Feastables, a commercial." Like, how
do these two things coincide?
>> We had that conversation, that meeting
with Jimmy in person. Then a couple
months later, we posted our second Joy
Ride ad.
>> Yeah.
>> And then he saw that and he DM'd us
straight away saying, "I want one for
Fastables. Pretty please." you can show
the DM on screen.
>> Yeah. And then we were like, heck,
>> that's crazy. Like that's I mean, it
doesn't get much better than that in
terms of like YouTube uh like YouTuber
market.
>> Yeah. If we're doing this niche of like
YouTuber products,
>> then Fastables is one of the top
>> and then it just took like a lot of like
um you know, chatting with the the team
and like
>> trying to um we pitched a story that we
really really like.
>> Yeah, you guys showed me the story
boards. It looks amazing
>> and and they were awesome enough to like
you know, trust us like create it. It's
definitely like a like it can feel like
a swing in the dark for a brand to like
trust like filmmakers with telling such
a a mysterious grungy story,
>> but like the Fables ad is like exactly
the kind of short films and and movies
that we'd love to make. It's just like
there's really you know mysterious
almost thriller vibes.
>> Um
>> can you talk about the con because this
will come out after that's at what can
just tell us about the concept of the
festivals and what's the product is it?
So the product they told us that they
were releasing a chocolate milk. Yeah.
>> So it's like, "Oh, cool. A brand new
like Feastables product. We're the first
to know about this. This is crazy."
>> And so we started like ideating. We also
knew that they have like this um mission
to end child labor in chocolate, which
we really resonated with us. And we were
kind of thinking of like how we can how
can we make this chocolate milk the hero
of the story
>> and like and we wanted to have a
metaphor for what they're doing to end
child labor
>> within the story.
>> And something we learned from like
working with Ryan was like it always
works when the the product is
implemented into the plot of the movie
>> and it kind of saves the day.
>> Yeah. And so we tried that again with
like when we were coming up with this
story and we kind of came up with um you
know Jimmy is in front of this $1
billion chocolate factory. He's been
invited to be in a tour. He enters the
factory and it's a scam.
>> He gets
>> he gets trapped in there.
>> He he falls down a trap door and he
realizes that this underground chocolate
factory
>> actually has like brainwashed their
workers,
>> taken away their childhood memories
>> and he's got no way out. And and the
goal for him is to, you know, free these
workers. And the way we kind of wrote
into the story is that the chocolate
milk
>> kind of thing that does it. Cuz the cool
thing is like the festivals team were
saying they love the idea of chocolate
milk being attached to nostalgia.
>> Like as a kid, everyone remembers like
downing a chocolate milk. Um, and so we
thought like if that moment of drinking
the chocolate milk kind of like brings
back the nostalgia, brings back the
childhood memories, awake, it like wakes
you up from the sleep.
>> Um, then it becomes the hero of the
movie.
>> And then you have this beautiful
metaphor of like what Jimmy really wants
to do in the real world, like you know,
freeing these children and giving them
their memories back, their childhood
memories.
>> And it just
>> by by by paying the workers more so that
the children don't have to work.
>> Yeah.
>> And and that Yeah. Yeah, I mean that
story just like Yeah, we're super proud
of how it turned out.
>> Yeah, man. I can't I can't wait to see
that. Um I can't believe how quickly you
guys are turning around. Like how many
days did you shoot it?
>> We shot it over four days.
>> Four days. Biggest production yet. You
guys are done.
>> It felt like it it was like a taste of
like what a movie set would feel like.
Just the amount of moving parts and and
builds that the beast team helped out
with.
>> Sets and building props was crazy.
>> And then Yeah, it was crazy.
>> Yeah, I'm excited. We're going to do a
breakdown of it. And uh you you know a
day I'm really excited about. Um I I
think I'm going to put a few predictions
out there. Um I think you guys will be
remembered as the Spielbergs of YouTube.
>> Oh my gosh.
>> I really do. I think you guys are the
Spielbergs of YouTube.
>> Wow.
>> Um I think that uh you guys are going to
go on to do a ton of movies.
>> Um I think that not only creator brands
are going to come to you, but big legacy
brands are going to come to you.
>> Um I think you guys are going to have a
lot of kids. I know. I don't know how
you're balancing and being a new dad.
Like a new dad myself. like and you guys
like yeah your your families must be so
proud. Your wives are also um the real
MVPs hearing like I know we haven't
talked about them enough but you know
how important that support system is
especially you guys you were traveling
>> yes
>> early days from Australia to
>> um California that is not easy and and I
I um I'm just rooting for you guys so
hard.
>> Thank you so much.
>> So hard. Like I I can't wait to see what
you guys do and just uh yeah you guys
are just a shining example. I appreciate
you guys taking the time and talking
about this a lot of this stuff for the
first time.
>> Yeah, we appreciate it. This is so fun.
It's been so awesome.